[Transcript missing]
Then Event Kit Data Isolation,
which is a feature currently on iOS
that you're going to need to pay
attention to if you're writing new apps
or even just to retrofit your old apps.
Finally, we'll be talking about
Calendar Store on OS X.
Calendar Store is the API that you
would use in versions of OS X before
Mountain Lion if you wanted to
work with Events and Reminders.
Alright,
let's get started with Calendar Events.
So, Calendar Events are here.
If you're working with
Event Kit and Calendar Events,
you're working with the same persistence
as is used on the iPad and the iPhone
and OS X for Events and Reminder.
But in this case,
we're talking about Events.
So, one of the new features in
Mountain Lion is that if you
do not have Calendar running
and you create new Events,
they will still sync to
Exchange and CalDAV accounts.
Those of you who have been
working on OS X before,
that should be good news.
Alright, so let's actually talk in more
detail about why you would
care about Calendar Events.
So, you're out there making
your awesome apps,
thank you very much,
and you're moseying along
and things are going well,
and then one day you meet
someone and you fall in love.
And you decide, "Hey,
let's get married!" And you do,
but it turns out there's all this
planning involved in getting married.
If you've done it before,
you'll know this is true.
You'll know that you're getting married.
But if you've done it before,
you'll know this is true.
And you have to get together with the
venue to plan out exactly how things are,
and scheduling with them is a hassle,
and get together with the cake
maker and plan things out.
And so, you and your super geeky spouse,
you get married, but then you think,
"That was a hassle.
Let's make it easier for
somebody else next time.
Let's make awesome wedding!" So,
awesome wedding, you decide,
is going to be this app that
is going to help other people
plan out all of the details.
Remember the details about the florist,
remember the details about
making cake and things like that.
So, if you put it on the app
store just with those details,
I think it would do well,
but what's going to happen is your users
are going to plan out the cake testing,
and they're not going to
see it on their calendar.
Because you haven't put
it onto their calendar,
and they will plan to go golfing instead,
or something like that.
And that's not going to work
out so well with your spouse.
So,
what you really want in this case is you
want your users to see the events that
are important to them that you're working
with and put them on their calendar.
So, just having events that are
important to them is going to help
you plan out all of the details.
So, having events on your
users' calendars is great,
and that draws them in with the
things that you're doing in your apps.
Some other benefits are that you can
put a link back to your application
and draw users in that way.
And you can also add alarms
so that users don't forget to
go and do the cake testing.
Okay, so let's talk about the elements
of EventKit and how you go about
not missing your cake testing.
So, here is the OS X calendar app,
and in the left-hand corner,
left-hand side,
you see here are a bunch of calendars.
The calendar app contains many calendars,
and then each calendar
contains many events.
[Transcript missing]
So, EK Event,
we talked in great detail about
at that session a few years ago,
so I'm not going to go into great detail,
but we'll just show here the iOS
Event Editor and the OS X Inspector.
Most of the fields you see here,
you can edit in your EK Events.
All right,
so let's look at some actual code.
Here is the events in a
week shown in OS X Calendar.
Let's walk through the code
that you would use if you
wanted to have an application,
an app,
that would fetch all of the events
in your Calendar for a given week.
So the first thing we need to do,
as we were just discussing,
is create an EK Event Store.
And in this case we're going to
initialize it with EKEntityMaskEvent,
because we're interested in events.
Next,
we want to find all of our calendars,
but actually we don't
want all of our calendars,
we just want the calendars
that involve events.
So we're going to fetch calendars
for entity type EKEntityTypeEvent.
Then once we have event calendars,
we want to create a predicate that
will describe the fetch we want to run.
So the predicate needs to know
what the start of the range is,
the end of the range,
and which calendars you're working with.
So I'm not going to go into detail
right now about how you create
an NSState for the beginning of
the week or the end of the week,
we'll actually talk about that later,
but let's imagine that you
have some NSStates for that
and we create a predicate.
And then with that predicate,
it's as easy as saying
Store Events Matching Predicate.
And then you have an array and you can
iterate over it and we can print them
out with their titles and start dates.
And you have a not very well
sorted utility for printing
out the events in your week.
All right, well, with that,
now that we've talked about
EK Calendar and EK Event Store,
I'd like to invite up my colleague,
Matt Lanter, to give you a more in-depth
demo using Calendar Events.
Thank you, Jeffrey.
I'm Matt Lanter,
and I'm an engineer on the Calendar team.
Outside of work,
I like playing poker with friends.
A few months ago,
a group of my friends and I had
an impromptu game of poker.
It was a ton of fun.
Some of us won money,
some of us lost money,
but we all had fun,
which is all that matters.
So much fun, in fact,
we invited more and more
of our friends to join.
Unfortunately,
it's become harder and harder to find
the time that works for all of us.
We tried solving this using iMessage,
which works okay,
but it's hard to keep track of
the times everyone is suggesting.
Given that I always
have my phone with me,
and I'm often at my computer,
this seems like a great opportunity
for an app to solve this problem.
Let's look at an app
I created that does just this.
First,
I created a shared calendar called Shared
Poker and invited all my friends to it.
Then they can just open
up this application,
select that calendar,
and they can suggest a time that
works for them to play poker.
[Transcript missing]
I used Event Kit to
create this application.
The great part about using Event Kit is
that I was able to use the exact
same model code on both iOS and OS X.
Here's the iOS version,
and here's the OS X version.
They have different
views and controllers,
but it's the exact same
model code underneath them.
Let's look at a couple of the methods
we need to implement in the model.
First, we need to fetch the Calendars.
We'll use this to populate the
drop-down list so you can select
the shared Poker Calendar.
Second, we need to be able to view all
the upcoming Events so we can
display that in the Table View.
Third, we want the ability to create
Events so that my friends can
suggest times that work for them.
And finally, the most important part
of this app is voting,
so that we can find the time
that works best for all of us.
Let's go into Xcode and look at
how we'd implement these methods.
First we'll start out and
look at what the application,
the app looks like with
none of these implemented.
So just the view.
And then we'll go through and
implement them one at a time and see
what it looks like after we do that.
If we go to the demo machine,
we see here's the
application in the middle.
Currently it doesn't
display anything though.
If I click Calendars, nothing happens.
There's nothing in the list and
adding an event does not work either.
So let's go into Xcode and first
we'll do the init method and then
we'll get into some of those methods.
Here we have an init.
As Jeffrey mentioned earlier,
we want the event store
to be long-lived ideally.
So we'll store that as
an instance variable,
as a property within our model.
To do this,
we'll call init with access to the
types and we'll specify events.
The entity mask event.
We only care about events
in this application,
this app.
We don't care about Reminders.
Next, we also want to keep track of
the Calendar the user currently
has selected in the UI,
which we'll use in some
of our later methods.
We need a good default
starting value though,
so we'll use the default
Calendar for new events.
This is the Calendar the user
specified in the Settings app on iOS
or within Calendar Preferences on OS X.
In addition,
we have some data structures we use
in this model to basically store the
current events we're showing to the user.
We're not too concerned
about those for the demo,
but we'll initialize them here.
Finally, when we fetch the Poker Events,
we want to do this on a background
thread so we don't block the
UI while that's happening.
We'll use Grand Central Dispatch,
which is a great API available
on both iOS and Mac OS X,
to do this.
We need to create a
queue as part of this.
So we'll create the queue,
and we'll call dispatchQueueCreate,
give it a title,
and then specify some options.
In this case, it's a serial queue,
meaning only one thing
runs on it at a time.
Okay, so that's our NIT method.
Let's look at how we fetch the Calendars.
Here we have a method, Calendars.
Currently it just returns
empty array using the new
Objective-C array literal syntax.
Let's think about what
we want to do here.
We want all of the events
supporting Calendars.
We don't care about the ones
that only support Reminders.
And then we want the
ones that are writable,
that we can add events to.
So to get the ones that support events,
we will
call Calendars for Entity
Type on the Event Store and
we'll specify Entity Type Event.
We need to filter this down
though to the writable ones.
So we'll create an array to
store the filtered results.
Just in the rain,
we'll call that Filtered Calendars.
Then we'll iterate through
the All Event Calendars.
And so for each Calendar and
All Event Calendars,
we want to check if we
can add Events to it.
So we'll check, does the Calendar allow
content modifications?
Basically, can we add items to it?
If so,
we'll add that to Filtered Calendars,
and then we just want to return
that Filtered Calendars array.
I will run this by clicking "Run"
in the upper left-hand corner,
and we should hopefully see that we
now have the shared poker calendar,
as well as my home and
work personal calendars.
Currently, though,
I can't view the times my
friends have suggested.
So let's look at how we'd fetch
all the upcoming events so we
can populate the table view.
Here's a method, FetchPokerEvents,
which we'll use to do that.
As I mentioned earlier,
we want to do this on a background
thread so we don't block the UI.
We'll use Grand Central Dispatch.
and we'll call dispatch async and we'll
specify that queue we created earlier.
Now, we want to fetch the events
within a current range.
For this demo,
I arbitrarily chose one day in the
past to two months in the future.
We need to create NSDates that
represent these points in time so
we can then fetch within that range.
To do this,
we need the user's current NS Calendar.
So we'll call Current Calendar,
and then we'll create NSDate components.
So one day ago components,
we'll set the day to -1,
but we need an NSDate.
To get the NSDate from
the NSDate components,
we'll call
dateByAddingComponents to date.
So we'll specify the
components we just created,
the NSDateDate,
this returns the current date time,
and that will return
the NSDate one day ago.
We want to do the same thing
for two months in the future.
So here we do that.
The main difference is
our month is a positive 2.
Now that we have those two NSDates,
we want to get a predicate from the
Event Store that encapsulates those two
dates and a calendar we'll search in.
will call the predicate
for events with start date,
specified one day ago.
The end date is two months in the future,
and the calendars we will use the
new Objective-C array literal syntax.
So this takes in an NSArray.
So we're basically specifying
an NSArray with the selected
calendar we created in a Nib.
Now that we have this predicate,
we want to run it to
get the matching events.
We will, on the Event Store,
call Events Matching Predicate,
pass in that predicate,
and that will give us
an array of results.
We need to filter this down, though,
by title.
We only want the events
whose title is Poker.
We'll create a standard
Dennis predicate to do this.
So we'll call a predicate
format where the title,
so I counter that title,
matches our parameter,
which in this case is poker.
Then we'll just run that predicate by
calling filtered array using predicate,
passing that predicate,
and we'll set that back
to our results array.
Now that we have this array of results,
we want to update those data
structures we created in there.
We're not concerned about everything
we do as part of that for this demo,
so we have a helper
function that will do that.
update those internal data structures.
Now that we have gotten all the results,
we want to notify the UI so that
it can update and refresh and
show the user the latest events.
We want to do this on the main thread
since it's likely the UI will do some
work when it gets a notification.
We will dispatch async
back onto the main queue,
which runs on the main thread,
and we'll post a notification
saying our model changed.
I'll run this again,
and now we should hopefully
see all the upcoming events.
So we see here, Shared Poker,
and then we see all the upcoming events.
So we see today at 6:00 p.m., tomorrow
7:00 p.m., and then Friday at 8:00 p.m.
Currently, tomorrow is winning.
However, I would really like to play
tonight at 10:00 p.m., so I'd
like to create a new time.
Unfortunately, I can't do that yet.
Because we can't add new Events,
so let's look at how we would add Events.
Here we have Add Event with Start Time,
which takes in the start time.
And first we want to
create a blank EK event.
Then we'll set a bunch of
properties on this event,
and finally we want to save this event.
To create the blank EK event,
we'll call EK event,
Event with Event Store,
and this will basically create
a new event that's bound to
the specified Event Store.
Now we want to set
several properties on it.
So here we set the title, time zone,
start date, end date,
and for the demo we just always
assume the duration is one hour.
And then we specify what calendar
this event should go into.
We want to save this event now.
So we'll call saveEvent,
pass in that event.
We specify a span.
The span only matters
for non-recurring events.
Or sorry,
it only matters for recurring events,
and this is not a recurring event.
So it doesn't really
matter what we put here.
But if you'd like to learn
more about recurring events,
I'd suggest watching the
WWDC talk from two years ago.
We specify that we commit yes,
so we'll immediately commit this.
And then if there's an
error for some reason,
we'll log that out.
The example of an error would be if
I did not specify the start date,
I would get an error.
Let's run this and we
should hopefully see,
we see all the times people suggested.
I'll create one for 10:00 PM tonight.
And now we see 10:00 PM.
Awesome.
I'd like to vote on this though,
so I can convince my friends
to come to this time tonight.
We have increased vote on event,
which takes an event.
First,
we want to get the current phone count.
So we'll call Event Number of Votes.
You may be thinking,
"I've never realized there's a
Number of Votes field on an event."
This field is created using custom code,
specifically using a category,
which I did for this demo.
We stored it in the Notes field for
this demo for simplicity's sake.
In an actual application,
you might want to store it on an external
server and then tie it back to this
event with some sort of event identifier.
But now that we have
this number of votes,
we want to increase it by one.
So we'll just set the
number of votes plus one.
And since we modified the notes field,
we want to save this event.
We'll call Save Event,
and this is the same thing we just
did when we created a new event.
We'll run this again,
and hopefully I should
be able to vote on it.
So here's the one I just created.
I'll click.
And now we have one vote,
which is awesome.
We will -- the great part about this,
as I mentioned earlier,
is I can use the exact same
model code for both iOS and OS X.
So let's try and-- let's
build the iOS version.
And I already created the
Viewer and Controller for it.
I just need to run it,
and then hopefully it will use
this model we have just created.
So I'll switch to the mobile target.
Build this.
And then we'll switch to my device.
And here we see the application running.
We see the 10 PM one I just created.
I'll click on that and
increase the vote to 2.
We see in this application,
we see all the times my
friends have suggested.
I can click Calendars in the
upper left-hand corner if
I want to change the calendar.
I can create a new event using plus
in the upper right-hand corner.
And so that's iOS application.
And this uses the exact same
model code we just created.
If we go back to the demo machine.
We see that it is automatically updated,
so the 10:00 PM one has two votes now.
This is great.
Event Kit takes care of all the
syncing for you behind the scenes.
You notice all we do is we save
the event and then everything
is taken care of for you.
Okay.
I'm showing you...
and I will be talking about
how easy it is to create an
application using Event Kit.
The great part about Event Kit is
you can have the exact same
model code to create both an iOS
and an OS X version of the app.
Now, over to Aaron,
who will talk to you more about Reminder.
I'm Aaron, I'm an iOS Event Kit Engineer,
and I'm excited to talk to you
about Reminder in Event Kit today.
In iOS 5, we introduced this great new
Reminder app that helps you keep
track of all the things you have
to do on both your iPhone and iPad.
And then in the OS X Mountain Lion,
we brought it to the Mac,
so your Reminders are really
useful because they're on
all your Apple devices.
But there's one place
they haven't yet been,
and that's your apps.
So now I'm excited to show
you how you can integrate
Reminder into your own apps.
And I'm looking forward to seeing
the interesting and awesome
ways you use them in your apps.
So, you may already be familiar with
something that uses Event Kit Reminders.
That's Siri.
Siri has been using Event Kit behind
the scenes to create
Reminders when you ask it to.
So, to go through this,
let's take an example of a task
I've been putting off for a while.
My cat has started smelling a little bad
lately and I need to give her a bath.
And some of you know all too well why
I might have been putting off this task.
So I'm going to ask Siri to
create a Reminder to help me.
I want to ask Siri,
"Remind me to give my cat a bath."
Up will pop something like this.
A reminder.
So, how would we create this
using Event Kit code?
Well, we're going to start out just like
we were doing to create an EK event.
That is, we need an EK Event Store.
And because we want this to be
an Event Store for Reminders,
we'll in it with access to Entity
Types and pass in EKEntityMaskReminder.
Next, we need an EK Reminder object
to represent this Reminder.
So we'll just create this using
Reminder with Event Store.
Next, we're going to set a
couple of properties on it.
First, the title, "Give My Cat a Bath,"
and then the Calendar.
Now, when you create an event
or a Reminder through Siri,
it'll use the default list
for new Reminders that you
specified in your settings.
So we're going to do the same here by
using default Calendar for new Reminders.
Next, all we have to do is save that
Reminder using EK Events Store's
SaveReminder method.
Now, I might keep putting off this event,
or this task,
if it never pops up and reminds me.
So let's talk about how to
create a time-based Reminder.
If I were asking Siri, I'd ask, "Siri,
remind me to give my cat a bath tomorrow
at 4:00 p.m." Let's look at the code.
To represent when I want
the alarm to fire,
I'll use an EK alarm,
alarm with absolute date specifically.
If you're already familiar
with creating alarms on events,
it works very much the same way.
Now,
you'll notice here that we kind of left
out how to get this tomorrow at 4:00 p.m.
date, but this bears more investigation.
[Transcript missing]
This is... How many of you
know what this number means?
86,400.
That's the number of seconds in a day,
right?
Except when it's not.
Thanks to our good old
friend Daylight Savings Time,
this will be wrong
probably twice per year,
but only probably in inconsistent
locales and at inconsistent
times on inconsistent days.
So, how on earth are we going to
get this right all the time?
We're going to use NS Calendar,
like Matt mentioned earlier.
Specifically,
we want to use the Gregorian
Calendar because Event Kit for
Reminders at this time only
supports the Gregorian Calendar.
So, now that we've specified
this NS Calendar,
we need to go from today to tomorrow.
So, we'll use NSDate Components
and set its Day Component to 1.
Next, we want to add one day
to the current date.
If you're not familiar
with the NSDate API,
NSDate is simply a wrapper
around an absolute time,
and the date method returns an absolute
time for the current time right now.
So, I'll use that calendar to get a new
NSDate for tomorrow by adding these
one-day components to the current date.
Now that I have the NSDate for tomorrow,
what I need to do is get the
components out of that so that
I can set them to a specific time.
So I don't care about the hours, minutes,
and seconds yet.
I just want to get the year and
the month and the day for tomorrow.
We're going to put in an era just
for future forward compatibility.
Then, so you see we have the
components from that date,
and that'll give us,
and as a date components
for tomorrow at 4:00 PM,
sends the time.
Then we want to specifically
set the hour to 16,
this is 24 hour time we're dealing with,
and then we'll set the
minute and second to zero.
And finally, one last thing,
because the EK Alarm API wants an NSDate,
not NSDate components,
we're going to get an NSDate back
from those components using
NSCalendar's dateFromComponents method.
All right, so we're done talking about
how to get this crazy date,
but it'll be right in all
locales and all time zones.
Again, we're going to create this
EK alarm with an absolute date,
and then we're going to add
that alarm to the Reminder.
Before we save though,
there's one last step.
We have to set the due
date components as well.
This helps it show up as
overdue after the Reminder has
fired in the Reminder's app.
So, we're going to set the due date
components property to those
NSDate components that NSCalendar
helped us calculate just a second ago.
Finally, we'll save that Reminder.
Now, let's talk about
location-based Reminders.
We all know that giving a cat a bath
can be very hazardous to your health.
So,
I'm going to want a little bit of armor.
Specifically, I want to ask Siri,
"Remind me to pick up a
chainmail suit when I leave work,
so those claws of fury don't
leave a flesh wound." So,
how do we create a Reminder
that looks like that?
We're going to use an
EK structure location object.
This is new in the new Reminder's API.
This will create using
location with title.
And the title here is something
that you use to show your
users what this location is.
Next,
we need to show where on earth work is.
So we're going to use the
CLLocation class for that.
Now, normally you might want to use
CL Geocoder or some other core
location APIs to get this for you.
But I just happen to know the location
for work off the top of my head.
So I'm going to create this
CLLocation object using a latitude
and longitude specifically.
Then I need to set that on the structure
location as the geolocation property.
Next, this is still an alarm after all.
It's still popping up at you.
So I'm going to create an
EK alarm just using alloc
init without any date or time.
and next I'm going to set
a couple properties on it.
First, the structure location
to what we just created,
and then because I want this to
be when I leave work as opposed
to when I arrive at work,
I'm going to set the proximity
property to EK_ALARM_PROXIMITY_LEAVE.
Finally, as before,
I'm going to add this alarm to the
Reminder and save the Reminder.
All right.
Now, what if my poor cat gets
dirty on a regular basis?
How do I have it remind me to
give my cat a bath every month,
for example?
If I were asking Siri this,
she'd pop up something like that.
In code, it's easy.
We'll use an EK recurrence rule
to represent how it repeats.
If you're already familiar
with Event Kit for Events,
this should be old hat to you.
So, we'll create this recurrence rule
with a recurrence frequency of
monthly and an interval of one
to specify that it's every month.
Then, we're going to add this
recurrence rule to the Reminder.
And before we save,
there's one more step.
We have to set the start date
components for when it starts repeating.
Now,
we already talked in depth about how to
get the NSDate components for any time,
so I'll just use the
NSDate components for right now.
Finally, we're going to add a new
rule to the Reminder.
to save this reminder.
Now, there is a slight difference
in how Events and Reminders
that repeat regenerate.
If you look in your Calendar,
you'll see repeating
Events generating out indefinitely.
However,
if you look in the Reminders app,
you don't see a million
Reminders of the same thing.
You only see the next one that's not due,
that hasn't been completed.
So, once you check that one
completes in the Reminders app,
that's when it will
generate the next instance.
Speaking of checking reminders complete,
let's talk about how to do that.
In the Reminders app,
if I were to check a complete,
it would go from looking
like that to that.
And that's what we call
the completed card.
So, how do we do that in code?
Simple.
All we have to do is set the completed
property and then save the reminder.
Now, the completion date,
which you'll see right there,
is when you completed
an event or a reminder.
It's automatically set to the current
time when you set this completed
property to "yes" and save the reminder.
But what if you were importing some
old data and some of the reminders in
that old data were already completed
at a specific time that you know?
Well,
to set that arbitrary time in the past,
we would use the completion
date property of EKReminder.
All right, so that's all there is to it.
We've gone over how to create
all sorts of Reminders,
including time-based Reminders that
fire at a specific time in the future.
We talked about how to use
location-based Reminders
using EK Structured Location.
And we talked about how to make Reminders
that repeat using EK Recurrence Rule.
And finally,
we all know how to mark a Reminder done.
So that's great,
but what if I have an existing
app that uses Reminder?
I'd like to invite up
Scott to talk about that.
[Transcript missing]
Next, we're going to set the title to
the name of the ingredient and
the notes we'll set to the amount.
And then finally,
we're going to save each Reminder.
Now, the important thing here,
and we haven't really
talked about this too much,
is that in this Save Reminder call,
we're going to set
Commit right here to No.
And the reason we're doing that is
if you were to set Commit to Yes,
we'd have a database save every
single Reminder that you're creating.
So if you had 50 ingredients,
there'd be 50 database saves.
That'd be kind of slow.
So we're just going to say Commit No.
And then at the very end here,
we're going to commit the whole thing.
And then we're going to call Event Store.
So what that'll do is that'll then
actually do a database save of all those
Reminders that you didn't commit before.
So it's just a little optimization.
And then I just added a little
UI alert view in this case that
will put up an alert saying,
hey, your Reminder was created.
So let me show you an example
of what that looks like here.
And so here's my Recipes app.
and these are all my recipes,
and if I pick Chocolate Cake,
I can scroll down and here's my
new Create Shopping Reminders,
and it's right after my
whole list of ingredients,
so I'm gonna tap this.
And it gets my alert up that says
Shopping Reminders have been added.
So if I say OK here,
If I go to the Reminder app,
here's my regular Reminder list
and there's now Chocolate Cake,
which was just created.
And there's my Chocolate Cake.
So that's the basic demo.
So next I wanted to talk about
something that's new in iOS 6,
which is Event Kit Data Isolation.
So exactly what is it?
Well, this is what's under Privacy
and Settings in iOS 6.
We've talked a lot about
this in other sessions.
But the point here is that your
apps now have to ask for permission
to get to Reminders and Events.
So when you want access to it,
we're going to ask the users,
just like you were used to
with location in the past.
So they're prompted whenever your
EK Event Store is instantiated.
Now this is really important to
remember because we want you to keep
your EK Event Store around a lot,
but we don't want you to create
it right at the beginning of
your app unless it's needed right
at the beginning of your app.
So the reason for this is that,
like in the Recipes application,
we don't want to ask to access
Reminder when they're just
looking at their recipes.
We only want to ask them when they
actually tap on the Make Shopping List.
And that's because they don't
want necessarily to say,
"Yeah, I want to look at my recipe.
Why do you need Reminder?" They want it
to be at the time they're doing something
that actually needs access to Reminder.
Now if you're writing something
that's reading Reminder
right away and doing stuff,
then create your EK Event Store right
away and you'll ask the user.
Now this will only ask the
first time they ask for it and
then they'll decide yes or no,
and then the next time your app
runs and you won't ask again.
Now the important thing is when we
do ask that your code is not blocked.
This is an asynchronous call
that brings up this alert view.
Now it's important because you
may have written apps in the
past that just go ahead and do
stuff if you're doing events.
If you're doing reminders, it's all new.
So you should do this correctly.
But if your app exists right now
and you just go and do things,
you may get errors like if you try to
save things before the user has said yes,
you have access,
you might actually get errors back
saying you don't have access to do this.
So we'll show you some tricks
on how to deal with this.
Then what happens is, while your app is,
while the asynchronous dialogue is up,
your app will eventually get an
Event Store Change Notification,
and then you'll be able to
check and see what did they say.
Did they say, "Yes, you're allowed," or,
"No, you're not allowed."
And then what's really important
is this usage description.
Now that's what's
highlighted in yellow here,
and that's what you're going
to be automatically shown to
the user saying why you need
access to Events or Reminder.
And it's really important to be
specific here and cover any of
the cases that your app might use.
You're only going to be asked
once for your whole app,
so if you have multiple places
you're using Reminder or
multiple places using Events,
make sure it covers those cases.
But try to give something
clear that people,
that everyday people,
not just developers, will understand.
So let me show you how we do this.
And if we go back to,
I have some code way up here.
So I'll comment out
this Make Shopping List.
and I'll show you the code we wrote
to actually make the shopping list,
this time dealing with data isolation.
You might recognize
the beginning of this.
We create the Event Store.
Same thing as what we did before.
And again, we're creating it when
they hit the button.
That's the important thing is that
we'll be asked when we hit the button.
and then we actually are
going to register for the
Event Store Change Notification,
which will call this
function Event Store Changed.
Then we're going to check
our authorization status.
Now, the main thing here with checking
authorization status is that we want to
see if they've already been authorized,
they've already been
denied or restricted,
and also if they're pending.
And pending is that asynchronous
call I talked about.
So if we're authorized,
we're just going to go ahead and create
the Reminders just like we did before.
If they're denied or restricted,
we're going to put up an
alert that we have created,
that you will create,
or however you want to deal with
them being denied or restricted.
And in this case,
we put up an alert that says you're not
allowed to use this and to use Reminders,
and you can go change it in
your settings if you want to.
If they're restricted,
that could be someone turned on
restrictions that doesn't allow us to
even ask them because you're not allowed
to change your access to Reminders.
And then if they're not determined,
that's the asynchronous call.
So in this case,
I added a flag to this view controller
saying we're pending authorization,
and I'm going to set that flag,
and then I'm not going to do anything
until we get our notification back.
So let me show you that notification.
We don't change the code
at all for Create Reminder,
same code as before.
and here's our event
store changed function.
And what we're going to do is if we were
setting this pending authorization flag,
then we're going to go in and we're
going to look and see what our
current authorization status is.
Most likely they've changed
the authorization status.
So if it's now determined,
we're going to go and we're going to say,
okay, are we authorized?
If we're authorized, we create Reminder.
If we're not authorized,
we're going to present
an alert that says,
hey, you're denied,
you're not allowed access to Reminder.
Now there's one other
thing I didn't show,
which is here inside the info P list,
let's see if we can --
it's kind of small here,
but if you can see down here,
there's this Reminder's
usage description.
And there's also other ones
for contacts usage description
and calendars and location.
So what you do is you set in here that
user presented string that says why
you need access to your Reminders.
And you can -- we just said
create new shopping list
for recipe ingredients here.
So that's where you're going to
set it for your whole application.
So you might have different
-- you might use locations,
you might have one for location in there.
And then we can just build and run this.
So let me go to my phone here.
So I actually am running
the version that knows about
restrictions or knows about privacy.
So let me go to settings and show
you how this shows up in settings.
So we go inside of privacy.
and we can go to Reminder and
you'll see that Recipes has
already been given access.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to turn off Recipes and no longer allow
access and you'll see how this works.
So I'm going to go back to Recipes.
[Transcript missing]
And now,
if I launch the Recipes app again,
and let's try the crepes.
I scroll down here,
I'll say Create Shopping List.
And now this is a system alert
that comes up with our usage
string right here in here.
So it says create new shopping
list for recipe ingredients,
and I can allow or not allow.
So if I say allow,
what's happening behind the scenes is
we're talking to the system service that
is going to allow us to create Reminders,
and then we get our message back.
So we can see that it actually worked.
And if I go to the Reminders app,
we'll see that I actually
have now grapes right there.
And that's it.
And that's everything.
[Transcript missing]